index.markdown, before:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

title: Verif.AI
layout: home
---

## Impact

> **Potential Impact / Meeting a strong market need**
> - Project is likely to provide a highly usable tool or insight to users
> - Effectively identifies and addresses a specific problem space or need.

> **Project website and MVP clarity** 
> - Project offers a working minimal viable product with a completed set of features or results, given the defined problem and scope.

> **Model Evaluation** 
> - Team demonstrates a clear set of steps taken to validate and evaluate modeling approach, techniques, and results from the project
> - Clear articulation of decision making process, trade-offs, and key learnings.

> **Presentation**
> - Team delivers a final project presentation powerpoint and MVP demo effectively, clearly and concisely within allotted time slots. 
> - Presentation structure and organization of contents allow the audience to understand sequence, process of project work, outcomes, and impact.

Commit message:

Add price of misinformation section

index.markdown, after:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

title: Verif.AI
layout: home
---

Verif.AI is an AI-powered fact-checking browser extension that allows you to quickly detect misinformation! Not only can it provide a true/false veracity statement, but it can also provide a justification behind its answer, a score to determine how trustworthy our justification is, and additional sources to check for yourself

## The Price of Misinformation

As researchers and developers deeply concerned with the well-being of our communities, we understand the devastating impact misinformation can have. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we've seen firsthand how false information about the virus spread like wildfire.  This wasn't just about frustrating inaccuracies; a CBC study found it led to an estimated 2.8 thousand lost lives and a staggering 300 million dollars in damages in Canada alone.  These are real people, families, and communities forever changed.  Misinformation erodes trust in vital institutions, hinders public health efforts, and ultimately costs lives. That's why we're committed to developing tools like this browser extension to empower everyone to navigate the online world with greater discernment. 

![](images/index/covid-canada.avif)

## The Power of Fact-Checkers



> **Potential Impact / Meeting a strong market need**
> - Project is likely to provide a highly usable tool or insight to users
> - Effectively identifies and addresses a specific problem space or need.

> **Project website and MVP clarity** 
> - Project offers a working minimal viable product with a completed set of features or results, given the defined problem and scope.

> **Model Evaluation** 
> - Team demonstrates a clear set of steps taken to validate and evaluate modeling approach, techniques, and results from the project
> - Clear articulation of decision making process, trade-offs, and key learnings.

> **Presentation**
> - Team delivers a final project presentation powerpoint and MVP demo effectively, clearly and concisely within allotted time slots. 
> - Presentation structure and organization of contents allow the audience to understand sequence, process of project work, outcomes, and impact.
